>> Bianca Gandolfo: Now we're gonna
pseudocode a hashing function.
We're gonna create our own
hashing function right now.
So the first thing we need
to do is take an input,
and the second thing we need
to do is create an output.
And this is, you have all of the creative
freedom that you want to explore what it
might look like to create
a hashing function.
In real life, you're probably not gonna
have to create a hashing function,
this is more of a exploratory exercise to
understand how a hashing function might
work underneath.
But people study this kind of thing and
write their dissertations
on this kind of thing.
And there's all kinds of
types of hashing functions.
But let's try our own, sound good?
So input, we have to have an output and
we want it to,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We want
the input to always the same output.
So if I put in ABCD and
it returns three, if I put ABCD in again,
it needs to return three again.
So it's not random,
it has to be able to map.
This is the input, this is the output,
that's my dance for it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: We had a mission.
We needed to write a function that
takes an input-
>> Speaker 2: Can you pump up the font
a little bit?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, and
always returns the same output,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right?
However, not the same as
the input [LAUGH], right?
If we put in two, we don't want it to
return two because that would be useless,
so it has to be something different.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay, okay,
so this is our hashing function.
A hashing function is
gonna take some input,
it's gonna do an operation on it and
return a value at the end, right?
Whether that value is used
to encrypt your data so
that people who are watching
your data go by can't
intercept it and
understand it in plain text.
You always wanna do that with passwords,
for example,
or if we're using it to
return a value that's gonna
map to a memory address
when we're saving data.
So those are some different
reasons why we'd wanna do this.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So probably wanna
write a function that says myHash, and
it's gonna take your input, right?
We could put some constraints on it,
like must be a string, or whatever.
You can put whatever constraints you
want on it as long as it's gonna return
the same thing.
So if we're gonna put in,
HELLO ARE WE THERE YET?,
as an input and for
some reason it's gonna return
us 764.32a or z, z, okay, z [LAUGH].
And when you do it a second time, you want
it to return the same thing every time.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
then THIS OTHER THING THAT I'M YELLING,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You want IT to init
returns.
43, you want it to, again, you wanna
be able to recreate that every time.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
what these values mean to you could vary.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Right, depending in
what context you're using this hash in
function, it's a very broad topic.
Okay, so that was our mission.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
how might we do this?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What did you do
when you were pseudocoding out a fake
hashing function?
>> Speaker 2: So
I got the ASCII value of each character
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Speaker 2: And-
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And then what?
>> Speaker 2: At first I was just
adding them all together, but
then I felt like my output
wasn't impressively long enough.
So then I started multiplying
them all together.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool, so-
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, so that's what I-
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH].
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
you got the ASCII value and added or
multiplied them together, cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Awesome.
>> Speaker 2: And then to make it weirder,
I returned the hex number.
It returned it as hex instead of binary or
decimal one.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: How did you do that?
Is there just a method that does that?
>> Speaker 2: Called two string and
pass 16 in the parameters.
So it returns a base 16.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
that's fancy, I like that.
And then returned the hex
instead of decimal.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
so that would do it.
[LAUGH] I like that.
I especially like the third step, cool.
Anyone do anything different?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No?
Cool, yeah,
these are all legitimate ways of doing it.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Any questions?
So this a hashing function, right?
What actually happens in
the middle of a hashing function
is like a very academic pursuit and
I encourage you to research different
ways that hashing functions work.
It's kinda cool, but
beyond the scope of today.
We just need to understand that a hashing
function, you're gonna put in a value and
it's gonna return the same
value every time.
And so here is a diagram of
our hash table interface, and
how we're gonna work with it for
our hash function.
So we can see here, we are gonna
put in a key into a hash table.
It's gonna pass through a hash function,
then it's gonna map to some location.
So Lisa Smith, it's going to hash to one,
then John Smith two, and
then Sarah Dee maybe 14, cool?
And this might be like a memory address or
a memory bucket, if you will.
And so this is just sort of like a high
level kinda visualization of how this
might work.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: That make sense?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Cool,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What else do I wanna
tell you?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay,
I think that's all I wanted to tell you.
>> Speaker 2: One question.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, sure.
In the picture?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, if for instance,
if we give some key value,
that key value map to the same address,
how do we?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So you're only
gonna map the key, not the value.
And you're saying,
what if it maps to the same address?
>> Speaker 2: Same address, yeah.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
collision, they call it a collision.
I was gonna wait till later, but
I can start talking about it now.
>> Speaker 2: But if it's a function,
you can't have a collision.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Well, so
the the hashing function is the thing
that is gonna give you your hash value,
right?
Let's say, for example,
our hash value's between 0 and 15.
And eventually, if you can only
return something between 0 and 15,
eventually, you are going to
get the same value, right?
And then the question is,
what do you do when your hash function for
two different keys is
returning the same number?
Yeah, we call it a collision.
And so when we have a collision,
how we handle that is we put
both of them in the same place.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And
then the specifics of like okay,
what do you mean you put both
of them in the same place?
Varies based on the implementation,
and we'll explore one of them.